#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation,Phase-Deploy

= jGauge 0.3.0 Alpha 2 - Documentation =

Please note this is an alpha release. Version 0.3.0 is still under development use with caution! ;-)

If you find jGauge useful a link back to my blog at <a href="http://www.dariancabot.com">www.dariancabot.com</a> is appreciated.

<a href="http://www.dariancabot.com/projects-2/jgauge/">See the main project page</a> for more information and downloads.

== Getting Started ==

Include these files in the head of your HTML:
{{{
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/gauge_screen.css" type="text/css" />
<!--[if IE]><script type="text/javascript" language="javascript" src="js/excanvas.min.js"></script><![endif]-->
<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="js/jquery-1.4.2.min.js"></script>
<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="js/jQueryRotate.min.js"></script>
<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="js/jgauge-0.3.0.a2.js"></script>
}}}
		
In the body of your HTML include a placeholder DIV:

{{{
<div id="jGaugeDemo" class="jgauge"></div>
}}}
			
Use JavaScript to create new jGauge instance and point it to our placeholder DIV.

Then use the jQuery ready() function to initialise the jGauge:

{{{
<script type="text/javascript">
	var demoGauge = new jGauge(); // Create a new jGauge.
	myGauge.gaugeId = 'jGaugeDemo'; // Link the new jGauge to the placeholder DIV.

	// This function is called by jQuery once the page has finished loading.
	$(document).ready(function(){
		myGauge.initialise(); // Put the jGauge on the page by initialising it.
	});
</script> 
}}}
			
We're done! Now you can change the gauge value like this (obviously this works well with AJAX):

{{{
myGauge.setValue(7.35);
}}}

== Parameters ==

This table lists all the available parameters to customise jGauge.  When a new jGauge is created, the default values are used unless you override them with your own settings.

Please note: *.gaugeId* must be set and unique for each jGauge instance!

<table cellspacing="0">
	<tr>
		<th>Parameter</th>
		<th>Default value</th>
		<th>Description</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.gaugeId</strong></td>
		<td>'' <em>(nothing)</em></td>
		<td>
			The 'id' attribute of the placeholder DIV.<br />
			Must be set and unique for each jGauge instance.
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.gaugeLimitAction</strong></td>
		<td>limitAction.autoRange</td>
		<td>What to do when the needle hits the limit.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.gaugeSegmentStart</strong></td>
		<td>-20</td>
		<td>Relative to 0&deg; (pointing right / 3-o-clock).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.gaugeSegmentEnd</strong></td>
		<td>20</td>
		<td>Relative to 0&deg; (pointing right / 3-o-clock).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.gaugeImagePath</strong></td>
		<td>'img/jgauge_face_default.png'</td>
		<td>Background image path.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.gaugeWidth</strong></td>
		<td>160</td>
		<td>Total width of jGauge.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.gaugeHeight</strong></td>
		<td>114</td>
		<td>Total height of jGauge.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.needleImagePath</strong></td>
		<td>'img/jgauge_needle_default.png'</td>
		<td>Needle image path.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.needleXOffset</strong></td>
		<td>0</td>
		<td>Shift needle position horizontally from center.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.needleYOffset</strong></td>
		<td>24</td>
		<td>Shift needle position vertically from center.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.labelXOffset</strong></td>
		<td>0</td>
		<td>Shift value label position horizontally from center.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.labelYOffset</strong></td>
		<td>20</td>
		<td>Shift value label position vertically from center.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.labelPrefix</strong></td>
		<td>'' <em>(nothing)</em></td>
		<td>Prefix for the value label (i.e. '$').</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.labelSuffix</strong></td>
		<td>'' <em>(nothing)</em></td>
		<td>Suffic for the value label (i.e. ' kW')</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.labelPrecision</strong></td>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>Value label rounding decimal places.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickCount</strong></td>
		<td>11</td>
		<td>Number of tick marks around the gauge face.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickStart</strong></td>
		<td>0</td>
		<td>Value of the first tick mark.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickEnd</strong></td>
		<td>10</td>
		<td>Value of the last tick mark.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickColour</strong></td>
		<td>'rgba(255, 255, 255, 1)'</td>
		<td>Tick mark colour and alpha (opacity).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickThickness</strong></td>
		<td>3</td>
		<td>Tick mark thickness.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickRadius</strong></td>
		<td>76</td>
		<td>Tick mark radius (distance from gauge center point).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickSubDivisions</strong></td>
		<td>5</td>
		<td><em>Future use</em></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickSubColour</strong></td>
		<td>'rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.5)'</td>
		<td><em>Future use</em></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickSubThickness</strong></td>
		<td>1</td>
		<td><em>Future use</em></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickLabelPrecision</strong></td>
		<td>1</td>
		<td>Rounding decimal places for tick labels.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.tickLabelRadius</strong></td>
		<td>65</td>
		<td>Tick label radius (distance fro gauge center point).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.rangeRadius</strong></td>
		<td>55</td>
		<td>Range arc radius (distance from gauge center point).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.rangeThickness</strong></td>
		<td>36</td>
		<td>Range arc thickness (spread of the arc outwards).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.rangeStart</strong></td>
		<td>-24</td>
		<td>Range start point as an angle relative to 0deg (pointing right).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.rangeEnd</strong></td>
		<td>25</td>
		<td>Range end point as an angle relative to 0deg (pointing right).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.rangeColour</strong></td>
		<td>'rgba(255, 32, 0, 0.2)'</td>
		<td>Colour and alpha (opacity) of the range arc.</td>
	</tr>
</table>
	
			
== Functions ==

This table lists the functions to use jGauge.  The most important function is *.initialise()* which must be called on each new jGauge.  Once this is done *.setValue()* can be used to change gauge value (this updates the value label and animates the needle).

<table cellspacing="0">
	<tr>
		<th>Function</th>
		<th>Description</th>
		<th>Example usage</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.initialise()</strong></td>
		<td>Initialises the gauge and puts it on the page.</td>
		<td class="code">myGauge<strong>.initialise()</strong>;</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.setValue()</strong></td>
		<td>Sets or updates the gauge value.</td>
		<td class="code">myGauge<strong>.setValue(</strong>5.2<strong>)</strong>;</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.getValue()</strong></td>
		<td>Gets the current gauge value.</td>
		<td class="code">var myValue = myGauge<strong>.getValue()</strong>;</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.updateTicks()</strong></td>
		<td>Updates the tick marks and tick labels (call after changing tick parameters).</td>
		<td class="code">
			// Make a change to the ticks.<br />
			myGauge.tickCount = 6;<br />
			// Now we must update ticks.<br />
			myGauge<strong>.updateTicks()</strong>;
		</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>.updateRange()</strong></td>
		<td>Updates the range (call after changing range parameters).</td>
		<td class="code">
			// Make a change to the range.<br />
			myGauge.rangeStart = -20;<br />
			// Now we must update range.<br />
			myGauge<strong>.updateRange()</strong>;
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>